# Changelog

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.


### Bug Fixes

- Excludes orientation from bicycle models.
- Fixes orientation error of bicycle model.
- Fixes radius for spherical obstacles.
- Changes moving obstacles type to pure spheres.
- Adds zero value to incomplete goals if needed. Adds collision checking to potentially abort a episode prematuraly using the terminated return value.

### Ft[assets]

- Restors panda xmls.
- Ignores temporary assets for mujoco xml's.

### Ft[bicycles]

- Changes bicycle to take steering positions rather than steering velocities. Introduces facing direction to compensate for urdf artifacts.

### Ft[dependency]

- Updates robotmodels to pypi version.
- Adds scipy as dependency to convert different spatial representations.

### Ft[dev]

- Adds rcfile for pylint in workflow.

### Ft[docs]

- Adds videos to readme.

### Ft[examples]

- Observation checking and info for panda mujoco example.
- Replaces panda_mujoco.py in favor of generic mujoco example.
- Removes plotting from mujoco example.
- Adds subgoals to mujoco example. Adds unitest for mujoco example.
- Updates mujoco example to have moving obstacles.
- Adds mujoco example for sensors.
- Adds lidar sensor to mujoco example.
- Adds fsd sensor to mujoco example.
- Adds video wrapper to mujoco example for showcasing.

### Ft[gym]

- Updates to 1.0.0.a1. Then, relying on default mujoco rendering becomes possible.
- In gym 1.0.0.a1, environments generated with make require an additional step of unwrapping. Thus, we changed to using UrdfEnv directly.

### Ft[mujoco]

- Adds example panda assets.
- Adapting mujoco xml with code.
- Adds distinction between robots and environment with mulitple robots.
- Adds example to compare mujoco and pybullet directly.
- Makes mujoco dependency explicit.
- Removes dependency from gymnasium MujocoEnv.
- Exposes access to models degrees of freedom to environment.
- Adds function to visualize static sub goals in mujoco.
- Adds mujoco installation for unittesting.
- Adds explicit dependency imageio.
- Changes obstacle and goal adding from pure geom's to body's with mocap property. That allows to change the position and orientation of obstacles and goals at runtime. Adds environment property t for mujoco env.
- Adds sensor capabilities for mujoco environments.
- Adds sensor name in raycasting sites and rangefinders to avoid duplicates.
- Adds render option to constructor arguments.
- Copies option for enforcing realtime in mujoco.

### Ft[robotmodels]

- Removes searching the assets.
- Removes assets.
- Adds robotmodels as dependency.
- Modifies examples and tests to work with robot models.
- Outsources iris and prius models.
- Updates robotmodels to match changes.

### Ft[scenes]

- Adds distint names for obstacles.

### Ft[sensor]

- Adds lidar sensor to mujoco using rangefinder. Separates physics engine from lidar sensor.

### Ft[sensors]

- Separates pybullet from most sensors, excluding raycasting ones. This is done using a physics engine interface class which is responsible for extracting link positions and obstacle positions. There are two interfaces now: One for pybullet and one for mujoco.
- Adds physics engine name argument to constructor of fsd sensor that is based on lidar.

### Ft[setup]

- Adds optional dependency to mujoco ^3.0.0

### Ft[style]

- Improves code style.

### Ft[urdfenv]

- Makes dt a property. Breaking for outside use of dt.

### Ft[version]

- Bumps version as patch for bicycle changes.

<!-- generated by git-cliff -->
